doc(quick) : improvements in order to improve the experience of new users (#1008)
kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder: docs/book/src/quick-start.md

- [Running locally](#test-it-out-locally)
- [Running in-cluster](#run-it-on-the-cluster)

## Prerequisites

- [go](https://golang.org/dl/) version v1.12+.
- [docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/) version 17.03+.
- [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) version v1.11.3+.
- [kustomize](https://sigs.k8s.io/kustomize/docs/INSTALL.md) v3.1.0+
- Access to a Kubernetes v1.11.3+ cluster.

## Installation

> Following the steps to install [kubebuilder](https://sigs.k8s.io/kubebuilder):

Reviewer: This is only part of a sentence now, and doesn't really make sense in isolation.  `Install` or `Follow` is an imperative -- it gives someone a command.  This form states what you're doing, and generally in this structure you'd expect it to be followed by another clause (e.g. `Following the steps to install KubeBuilder, Agnes ran go get`, `Agnes installed kubebuilder by following the steps below`).  Alternative, the phrase `The following` is short for `The following <plural noun>`, but you can't leave off the `The`.

Please switch back to an imperative form.

Author: Tks English is not my first language and this explanation was very helpful,

- [Running locally](#test-it-out-locally)
- [Running in-cluster](#run-it-on-the-cluster)

> ## Prerequisites

Reviewer: maybe just merge this with installation?  `kubebuilder` isn't exactly a prerequisite, since we show how to install it below.

Author: Make sense remove kubebuilder

Author: The kubebuilder makes sense not be in the prerequisite,  however, the others one shows that should be.

- [go](https://golang.org/dl/) version v1.12+.
- [docker](https://docs.docker.com/install/) version 17.03+.

>   - Alternatively [podman](https://github.com/containers/libpod/blob/master/install.md) `v1.2.0+` or [buildah](https://github.com/containers/buildah/blob/master/install.md) `v1.7+`

Reviewer: we don't provide podman and buildah instructions, so I'm hesitant to include these specifically.  Perhaps `(or some other way to build and run containers)` or something similar.

Author: Done

export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/kubebuilder/bin
```

<aside class="note">
<h1>Using master branch</h1>

Also, you can install a master snapshot from `https://go.kubebuilder.io/dl/latest/${os}/${arch}`.

</aside>

## Create a Project

Create a directory, and then run the following command inside of it to initialize a new project:

```bash
kubebuilder init --domain my.domain
```

<aside class="note">
<h1>Not in $GOPATH</h1>

If you're not in `GOPATH`, you'll need to run `go mod init <modulename>`
in order to tell kubebuilder and Go the base import path of your module.  

</aside>

<aside class="note">
<h1>Go package issues</h1>

Ensure that you activate the module support by running `$ export GO111MODULE=on` 
to solve issues as `cannot find package ... (from $GOROOT)`.

</aside>

## Create an API

Run the following command to create a new API (group/version) as `webapp/v1` and the new Kind(CRD) `Guestbook` on it:

```bash
kubebuilder create api --group webapp --version v1 --kind Guestbook
```

<aside class="note">
<h1>Press Options</h1>

> If you press `y` for Create Resource [y/n] and for Create Controller [y/n] then this will create the files `api/v1/guestbook_types.go` where the API is defined 

Reviewer 2: I understood the quickstart to be giving the user a tour of the system.  Therefore, perhaps it should direct the user to press `y` twice button rather than giving them a choice.

	// INSERT ADDITIONAL STATUS FIELD - define observed state of cluster
	// Important: Run "make" to regenerate code after modifying this file
	
	// GuestbookStatus is the set of Guestbook node specific statuses: Active or Standby
    GuestbookStatus GuestbookStatus `json:"guestbookStatus"`
    
    // Status of Guestbook Nodes
    Nodes []string `json:"nodes"`
}

type GuestbookStatus struct {

	// PodName of the active Guestbook node. 
	Active string `json:"active"`

	// PodNames of the standby Guestbook nodes.
	Standby []string `json:"standby"`
}	
```

</p>
</details>

## Test It Out 

You'll need a Kubernetes cluster to run against.  You can use
[KIND](https://sigs.k8s.io/kind) to get a local cluster for testing, or
run against a remote cluster.

<aside class="note">
<h1>Context Used</h1>

Your controller will automatically use the current context in your
kubeconfig file (i.e. whatever cluster `kubectl cluster-info` shows).

</aside> 

Install the CRDs into the cluster:
```bash
make install
```

Run your controller (this will run in the foreground, so switch to a new
terminal if you want to leave it running):
```bash
make run
```

## Install Instances of Custom Resources

> If you pressed `y` for Create Resource [y/n] then you created an (CR)Custom Resource for your (CRD)Custom Resource Definition in your samples (make sure to edit them first if you've changed the

Reviewer 2: Since this is giving the user a tour of the system, suggest avoiding "If" statements.

Author: But it is optional. IMHO: it is not mandatory for the user to perform the quick start. However, at the end of it was added a suggestion for the user to follow up the tutorial where all these points will be detailed explained. Are you ok with?

Reviewer 2: I would think that 95% or more of use cases for KubeBuilder involve both a CRD and a controller.  
Chosing not to use them is sort of an advanced use case.  So a quickstart (which I see as like a demo), does not need to cover an advanced use case.

Fewer choices for a user in introductory instructions is better.

Author: IMHO the goal is to show how to create, build and deploy a project to give a macro idea and not actually cover a basic use case. The basic demo/use case is covered by the tutorial and not here.

export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/kubebuilder/bin
```

**Note:** Also, you can install a master snapshot from `https://go.kubebuilder.io/dl/latest/${os}/${arch}`.

## Create a Project

> Create a directory then run the following command inside of it to initialize a new project:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a directory, and then run the following command inside of it to initialize a new project:
```

```bash
kubebuilder init --domain my.domain
```

**Note:** If you're not in `GOPATH`, you'll need to run `go mod init <modulename>`
in order to tell kubebuilder and Go the base import path of your module.

## Create an API

* Run the following command to create a new API (group/version) as `webapp/v1` and the new Kind(CRD) `Guestbook` on it:

```bash
kubebuilder create api --group webapp --version v1 --kind Guestbook
```

> **Note:** If you press `y` for Create Resource [y/n] and for Create Controller [y/n] then this will create the files `api/v1/guestbook_types.go` where the API is defined 

Reviewer: same before about a proper note block.  Look for `class="note` in the documentation to find an example.

Author: 👍

and the `controller/guestbook_controller.go` where the reconciliation business logic is implemented for this Kind(CRD) if you choose yes for the both options.  

* **OPTIONAL:** Edit the API definition and the reconciliation business
logic. For more info see [Designing an API](/cronjob-tutorial/api-design.md) and [What's in

> a Controller](cronjob-tutorial/controller-overview.md). Following an example. 

Reviewer: Ditto from above -- you can't leave off the `The` here:

```suggestion
a Controller](cronjob-tutorial/controller-overview.md).  For example:
```

Author: 👍

> ```go (api/v1/guestbook_types.go)

Reviewer: put this in a details block.

// GuestbookSpec defines the desired state of Guestbook
type GuestbookSpec struct {
	// INSERT ADDITIONAL SPEC FIELDS - desired state of cluster
	// Important: Run "make" to regenerate code after modifying this file

    // Quantity of instances
    // +kubebuilder:validation:Minimum=1
    Size int32 `json:"size"`
}
```

## Test It Out 

You'll need a Kubernetes cluster to run against.  You can use
[KIND](https://sigs.k8s.io/kind) to get a local cluster for testing, or
run against a remote cluster.

> 

Reviewer: don't drop this block

Reviewer: but you can reword it to say that `make install` will use whatever context

Author: 👍

> * Install the CRDs into the cluster:

Reviewer: note that if you're adding bullet points, you should make sure the fenced code block is indented to line up with the start of the text so that the code block joins the list item properly.

Reviewer: Ditto everywhere else in this doc

Author: 👍

export PATH=$PATH:/usr/local/kubebuilder/bin
```

**NOTE:** Also, you can install a master snapshot from `https://go.kubebuilder.io/dl/latest/${os}/${arch}`.

> * Install [kustomize](https://sigs.k8s.io/kustomize/docs/INSTALL.md) v3.1.0+

Reviewer: why did you change all the bullet points below?

Author: To make easier see/identify that has more than one step to follow up and this part does not be skipped by mistake.

Author: After changes, it makes no longer sense.  Tks

Author: Solved

## Create a Project

Create a directory then run the following command inside of it to initialize a new project:

```bash
kubebuilder init --domain my.domain
```

**NOTE:** If you're not in `GOPATH`, you'll need to run `go mod init <modulename>`
in order to tell kubebuilder and Go the base import path of your module.

## Create an API

* Run the following command to create a new API (group/version) as `webapp/v1` and the new Kind(CRD) `Guestbook` on it:

```bash
kubebuilder create api --group webapp --version v1 --kind Guestbook
```

> **NOTE:** This will create the files `api/v1/guestbook_types.go` where the API is defined 

Reviewer: make this a note block along the same lines as the others (look for `<aside class="note">`)

Reviewer: ditto elsewere in your changes

Author: I tried to use : 

```
<aside class="notes" data-markdown>
{note}
</aside>
```
and it did not work. I mean, was the same as nothing. I never ever saw it before. How it supose render? Should it add the NOTE?

and the `controller/guestbook_controller.go` where the reconciliation business logic is implemented for this Kind(CRD) if you choose yes for the both options.  

> * (**OPTIONAL**) Edit the API definition and the reconciliation business

Reviewer: why is this in parens now?

Author: Removed 👍

## Run It On the Cluster

* Build and push your image to the location specified by `IMG`:

```bash
make docker-build docker-push IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:tag
```

* Deploy the controller to the cluster with image specified by `IMG`:

```bash
make deploy IMG=<some-registry>/<project-name>:tag
```

**Note:** If you encounter RBAC errors, you may need to grant yourself cluster-admin

> privileges or be logged in as admin. For further information see an example over how to [create a sample user](https://github.com/kubernetes/dashboard/blob/master/docs/user/access-control/creating-sample-user.md#creating-sample-user).

Reviewer: is there another link we can use?  Dashboard isn't the best place to link to considering its state.   Since this usually happens on GKE, maybe link here: https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine/docs/how-to/role-based-access-control#iam-rolebinding-bootstrap

Author: Done 👍
